# Objects & Arrays

## Property Access

Assignments with Dots

```js
var person = {}; // declare a person object

person.name = "Mrs. White"; // assign a value to a property

var person = { // object literal notation
    "name": "Mrs. White" // the quotation marks are not needed for a one-word property declaration, JavaScript will assume it is a string
};
```

**Anything that ever uses a dot in JavaScript is an object.**

```js
var person = {};

person.name = "Mrs. White";

var who = person.name;

who; //??

person.name = "Mr. White";

who; //??

who.story //??
```

A primitive value is a string, number, boolean, null, or undefined. A non-primitive value is an object, array, function, promise. Primitive values get passed by value, non-primitive values get passed by reference. If you are passing primitive values, a copy is made, non-primitive values are passed as a reference. This behavior can produce unpredictable results if you are not careful. For example, if you were to assign person.name to a variable i.e. who, then reassign person.name, who would retain the original reference for person.name.

## Arrays

```js
var person = [];

person.name = "Mrs. White";

var who = person.name;

who; //??

typeof person === "array"; //??
```

Arrays are objects, and because of that, the rules are exactly the same. The major difference between an array and an object are the available methods for either, an example of which is .length being an available method for arrays, but not objects. If you check the typeof for the person variable in the code block above, the console should return object.

## Bracket Notation

```js
var person = [];

person.name = "Mrs. White";

var who = person.name;

person[0] = "I was not in the Billiards room";
```

```js
var person = []; // declare a person array
var plea = "wouldShe"

person.name = "Mrs. White"; // assign a vaule to a property

person[plea] = "I would never!"
```

The person[plea] = "I would never!" will create a new property in the person array based on the original value of the plea variable "wouldShe", which will make the person array look like this:

```js
person = [
  name: "Mrs. White",
  wouldShe: "I would never!"
]
```

If the intention was to create a plea key for the person object, then you need to surround the plea with quotes. i.e. person["plea"] = "I would never!". The person array would then look like this:

```js
person = [
  name: "Mrs. White",
  plea: "I would never!"
]
```

Reviewing what we’ve learned about objects and arrays:

- An array is an object that has methods available to it.
- A property string can be passed with dot notation or brackets and quotes.
- Dot notation coerces to a string, but cannot coerce a number to a string, it will result in a SyntaxError. JavaScript will start to evaluate the number as a number and then throw the SyntaxError.
- If you receive a SyntaxError when trying to access a variable within an object with dot notation, use bracket notation and quotes around the variable name to access it.
