# Functions In-Depth

## Anatomy of a Function

How exactly does our code execute?

```js
var add = // function name
  function (
    a,
    b // parameters
  ) { // Declaration/Definition
    // function body
    return a + b; // function body
  }; // function body

add(3, 4, 5); // invocation / call-time (3, 4, 5) are the arguments
```

A function definition does not invoke the function, the invocation happens after the function has been called, usually by functionName(arguments).

Parameters of a function hold no value, their value is determined by the arguments passed at call-time.

## Function Scavenger Exercise

```js
var nameImprover = function(name, adj){
  return 'Col ' + name + ' Mc' + adj + ' pants';
};

$('body').hide();

myArr.forEach(function(val){ console.log(val);});

$('button').on('click', function(){
  console.log('Don\'t press any buttons!');
});

/***
 * Find: Definitions, Fn Names, Invocations, Arguments, Parameters, 
 * Fn Bodies, Return values, Side Effects
```

**Note:** Return values are anything that's explicitly returned, in this case an ES5 at least, it's explicitly returned with a return statement & then side effects are things that are happening other than returning the value that effects something outside of that function. So, `console.log` for example is a side effect because you are logging to the console that exists outside of that function or if you are changing the value of an object that's in a different scope.

## Function Scavenger Solution

- Function definitions can be spotted whenever you see the word ‘function’
- Function names come in a few flavors, in this exercise nameImprover, .hide(), .forEach(), .on(), .log(), and $ are function names
- Function bodies are whatever shows up between the {}. They do not get run until the function is invoked
Function invocations here are; return, .hide(), .forEach, console.log, .on(), $
- Function arguments and parameters. Arguments have a value, parameters are the name. Parameters; name, adj, val Arguments; ‘body’, ‘button’, ‘click’, function()…
- Function return is shown where the word ‘return’ appears. A side effect is anything that reaches beyond the {} of a function; i.e. console.log(‘I am a side effect!’). $(‘body’).hide(); is a side effect as well.
